We have been trying for many,
many weeks now to try to get into Gaza.
It has been impossible for us.
Up until Tuesday, we were able to travel
inside with some medical volunteers
who are working at a newly established,
newly built
field hospital that has been set up
by the United Arab Emirates
in the southern part of Gaza.
As you know,
the southern part of Gaza
is now very much
the focus of Israel's
military operations.
That is exacerbating
an already dire humanitarian catastrophe
and leading to record numbers
of civilian casualties.
As we saw for ourselves,
you don't have to search
for tragedy in Gaza.
It finds you on every street
strewn with trash
and stagnant water,
desolate and foreboding.
So we've just crossed the border
into southern Gaza.
This is the first time
we've actually been able to get to Gaza
since October 7th.
And we
are now driving to a field hospital
that has been set up by the U.S.
Up until now, Israel
and Egypt
have made access
for international journalists
next to impossible.
And you can see why.
Since October 7th,
the Israeli
military says that it has hit Gaza
with more than 22,000 strikes that
by far surpasses anything we've seen
in modern warfare
in terms of intensity and ferocity.
And we really,
honestly are just
getting a glimpse of it here.
Despite Israel's heavy bombardment,
there are people out on the streets.
A crowd outside a bakery.
Where else can they go?
Nowhere is safe in Gaza.
Used to be a stadium.
Arriving at the Emirati Field hospital,
we meet Dr. Abdullah al Naqvi.
No sooner does our tour
begin when our ambulances.
The battery life.
And this is what you hear
all the time now. Yes.
At least 20 times a day.
At least 20 times.
A day, maybe more.
Sometimes
I think we refuse to it.
One thing
none of the doctors here have got used to
is the number of children
they are treating.
The U.N.
estimates that
some two thirds of those killed
in this round of the conflict
have been women and children.
Eight year old Jinan was lucky enough
to survive a strike on her family home
that crushed her femur
but spared her immediate family.
She was shocked to hear no morphine.
She says she's not in pain.
So that's how I feel. That's what I.
Her mother, Hiba, was
out when it happened.
I went to the hospital,
she says, And I came here
and I found her here.
The doctors told me
what happened with her,
and I made sure that she's okay.
When she got,
I was sitting next to my grandfather,
and my grandfather held me,
and my uncle was fine.
So he is the one who took us out
that don't cry.
But Dr.
Ahmed al Mazrui says it is hard not to.
I work with all the people like I,
but the children.
Something that changed.
Touches your heart
and tests your faith in humanity.
As we leave Jinan, Dr.
Al Naqvi comes back
with the news of casualties
arriving from the strike
just 10 minutes earlier.
So just because they wouldn't send
snow to the that young
man from that.
Just from the
course of we just saw from the bomb,
we just heard. That is my understanding.
They will arrive to over two days to.
A man and a 13 year
old boy are wheeled in
both missing
limbs, both in a perilous state.
With much less imagination.
What's your name?
The doctor asks.
Next, the notes provided by
the paramedics are smeared with blood,
a tourniquet improvised with a bandage.
Since the field hospital opened
less than two weeks ago,
but has been inundated with patients,
130 of their 100
beds are already full.
So let me understand this.
You are now
basically the only hospital around
that still has some beds.
I guess. Yes.
Or maybe I'm very short of that
because they are telling me
one of the hospitals
with a capacity of 200
and they are accommodating
1000 right now.
And the next door
hospital, I'm not very sure.
They say like 50 to 200000,
maybe 400 to 500 patients.
So when he called me,
he said they have
the three patients in each bid.
Please take any of them.
Send as many as you can.
I mean, we've been here 15 minutes.
And this. Is already worse.
This is what you hear.
You see.
In every bed another gut punch.
Less than two years old,
Amir still doesn't know
that his parents and siblings were killed
in the strike that disfigured him
and embarrassed of mother.
Yesterday, he saw a nurse
that looked like his father.
His aunt, Inaaya tells us
he kept screaming.
Dad, Dad! Dad.
Amir is still too young
to comprehend the horror all around him.
But 20 year
old Lama understands it all too well.
Ten weeks ago,
she was studying
engineering at university
and helping to plan her sister's wedding.
Today,
she is recovering
from the amputation of her right leg.
Her family followed Israeli
military orders
and fled from the north to the south.
But the house where they were seeking
shelter was hit in a strike
by the Muslim and National.
The world isn't listening to us,
she says.
Nobody cares about us.
We have been dying for over 60 days,
dying from the bombing,
and nobody did anything.
Words of condemnation
delivered in a thin grass
today.
But does anyone here.
Even tell us?
Like Grozny, Aleppo and Mariupol.
Gaza will go down
as one of the great horrors
of modern warfare.
It's getting dark.
Time for us to leave.
A privilege
the vast majority of Gazans do not have.
Our brief glimpse from a window
on to hell is ending as a new chapter
in this ugly conflict unfolds.
All the help is needed.
Now, the death toll in Gaza
as a result of Israel's
frenzied bombardment
currently hovers at roughly 18,000.
If you do the math, extrapolating
as the U.N.
says, that two thirds of the casualties
roughly, are civilians.
That is about 11,800
civilians who have been killed
in just over two months.
To give you a comparison.
In the first year of the US
invasion of Iraq in 2003,
according to an independent
research organization,
some 7700 civilians
were killed by US forces in 20 years
in Afghanistan,
according to independent research groups.
Some 12,000 civilians were killed.
So in just two months
you're now approaching 12,000 civilians.
And that's the same amount
who were killed in 20 years
during the US war in Afghanistan.
So this is truly staggering
and unprecedented.
PHIL Erica.
US It's an extraordinarily powerful piece
because you're
taking us one in
and two to the personal stories.
I think I've been just difficult
to some degree to come by
because of the conflict
and the type of conflict this has been.
Your reference
in the piece to Grozny, Aleppo, Mariupol.
You've covered so many conflict zones.
You've covered
some of the worst conflicts
that have happened
in the last several decades,
if not longer.
How would you compare this to us looking?
It's always difficult
to compare conflicts,
but I would just say it is so striking
that the people of Gaza have nowhere
they can go, have nowhere that is safe.
They are literally being told to move
from the north.
As the north gets bombed,
they move to the south
and the south gets bombed.
Now they're expected
to move to a different area
in central Gaza. And let's be very clear.
It is not easy to move around right now
in Gaza.
We saw almost no cars on the streets.
People do not have fuel.
People are afraid to try to make road
runs because of the risks
that that incurs.
And so,
of course,
you are seeing a horrific impact,
not just in terms
of the civilian casualties
that we talked about,
but in terms of the humanitarian crisis.
You're talking about malnutrition.
You're talking about
the spread of preventable diseases.
We talked to the doctors
who said that
they're treating cases of sepsis
and patients are nearly dying
where these should be
straightforward operations
that can't be performed.
They described one incident
where a man had worms
in a wound on his head
because there
is such a lack of a sanitary
and sanitary environment
in which to perform surgeries
or operations.
So this is a crisis of epic proportions.
And the fact that
humanitarian aid workers
do not have the access that they need
just makes it all the more staggering.
One extra point
that I really need to make here, Phil,
because I think it's important.
This was our first time
being able to gain access into Gaza,
but the journalists in Gaza
have been doing heroic
work.
They have paid such a high price for that
deadliest conflict for journalists
that we have seen in decades.
More than 60 journalists in Gaza alone
have been killed
in the last two and a half months.
That is according to the Committee
to Protect Journalists.
So you have a perfect storm here
with massive bombardment,
an inability to create safe
zones, an inability
to get humanitarian access
where it's needed,
and incredibly brave journalists
who are doing everything
they can
to tell the stories
and bring the reality to the world.
But the frustrating
of international journalists
who can't get in
to try to complement
and supplement their efforts.
It is it is remarkable and such an.
Important picture
that you paint of all of those challenges
in this moment.
I was struck by
in that field hospital,
so much of what we've talked about
has been
what is needed
in terms of medical supplies.
As you just pointed out,
and what that can mean,
but also the electricity.
And there was
much talk about fuel in the beginning
and fuel being needed
to run generators at hospitals.
How that field hospital that you were at,
how was it able to operate
and to run some of those machines?
And is it at risk?
So, Erica,
because that
field hospital is operated
by the Emirates
and because the Emirates
have a normalized relationship
with Israel,
they are able to get supplies
in, get fuel in in a way that the vast
majority of hospitals in Gaza are not.
And even they face very real challenges,
endless bureaucracy, onerous waits
at the border,
trying to get those supplies in.
But what the doctor said is
Gaza and hospitals are referring
their patients
to the Emirati field hospital.
They're coming in
in a very bad state of shape.
They don't have proper tourniquets even,
which are a crucial thing
in terms of stopping the bleeding.
They don't have proper painkillers.
The doctor told us
they're needing
to give vast doses
of painkillers
to people
who are in extraordinary
amounts of excruciating pain
because these hospitals have just
had to ration
whatever minimal supplies they have.
Also, this field
hospital is very close to that border
with Egypt.
And so
really, they are not a microcosm
and they should not give you
any reflection
or idea
of what those Gaza hospitals look like.
They are a sort of island,
and that is why they are getting
so many referrals
from these other hospitals
that are
teetering on the brink of collapse.
In fact,
many of them just had simply collapsed
and are therefore trying
to refer as many patients
to this field hospital
as perfect as possible to try to get them
some modicum of decent care.
I will continue to be struck by the line.
No one's listening.
It seems like every patient either
wanted to say or was saying to you.
Clarissa Ward It's remarkable work.
And to your point,
there are dozens of journalists
on the ground there
that have lost their lives covering this.
There are dozens
still there covering it
every day of lost family members
and your work coming in
and supplementing that
and adding to it is incredibly important.
We appreciate your time, as always.
Thank you.